--- VOC --- 
Voice of consumers (vague) but opinion of customers
CTQ Critial to quality are not so vague 
Choosing a measure method 
Questionnaires or interviews or observation 
1 Questionnaires use closed and straigthforward questions Efficient and independent

Tips for surveys:add control questions. They are the same questions but rephrased to catch people who dont care about the survey
Limit open responses 
Try to use as much as possible parametric scale as answers 
Use pre-test with a small group to test if your questions are clear
Max. 10 minutes long (I would say 8 minutes)
Dont bundle 2 questions in 1 question

2 Interview take more time but gives more insights. Usually range between 10 and 30 interviews
3 Observation. We do that in cases where no one knows about the project or cant answer the questions 

--- Measuring Scales ---

Nominal or categorical variables features: Words cannot be put in low-high scale/range
Ordinal: Words or range of numbers that can be put in low-high scale
Parametric: numbers not range of them (gives more freedom to analytical methods)
YOU CANNOT UPGRADE; ALWAYS DOWNGRADE

--- Central Tendency ---
Mode : Values that pops up the most (used for nominal scale)
Median : Value in the middle when values are put in order
Arithmetic mean: Average 
Geometric mean: Suitable for percentual CHANGES (arithmetic is now). put all numbers in decimals and multiply them
...then raise to 1/n of observations. This is the mean per year (in this case)

No python importar dados usando pandas
calcular a media geometrica usando uma funcao com for loop
calcular geo mean 

--- MEAN OR MEDIAN? ---
Use both. Mean is more sensitive to bigger values (and outliers)
Median is the middle term of all terms

--- BOX PLOT --- 
Top whisker 
Bottom whisker
Range of values 
Median (order of values from low to high) STRAIGTH LINE
Mean (symbol inside the box)
Bottom of the box (box between whiskers) is the median Q1 
Top of the box (box between whiskers) is the median Q3
Once you order your data from low to high, Q3 is the median (or middle value) of the higher half of the data. Q1 is the median (or middle value) of the lower half. 
Above or beyond the whiskers: Outliers 
How we determine Outlier?
IQR: Q3-Q1
•	All value that are below 1.5 x IQR from Q1 are considered outliers. 
•	All values that are above 1.5 x IQR from Q3 are considered outliers


--- ROLL THROUGHPUT YIELD ---
One of the ovverall measure of quality (RTY)
Just multiply the First pass yield of each process (in decimals)


--- CONFIDENCE INTERVAL ---
It gives the range on which the number measured (mean or any other mark) will fall if we repeat the experiments
Ex: I measured an average of 100 hours per month of gym of 200 handball players with a conf. interval of 30%
That means if I repear the measurement the number mean will fall between a range calculated
That range is calculated as: mean-ZSCORE*SE
The smaller the confidence interval, the better. More credibility. 
We find the ZSCORE based on our confidence interval (CL) and the area calculated on the normal distribution curve to the left of z+
The area (for a normal distribution!!) to the left of z is: (1+CL)/2
Then you find the calculated area on the table and check for the indexes and columns and get the zscore


--- SAMPLE OR POPULATION
Sample is considered a subset of the population (n)
Population is all data (N)

--- SAMPLING TECHNIQUES ---
Probability sampling techniques (same chance for all population)
- Considers the whole population (like a lottery)
- Systematic sampling every n th sample is pick

-- Stratified sampling (GOLDEN STANDARD) - ONLY IF YOU KNOW THE PROPORTIONS!!!!!
Takes into account the proportion of between the different types of your sample (cars and people, blue and black). than calculates the strata and takes this into account when sampling 

Non-probability sampling techniques (not same chance for all population). 
- Sample less representative
- Convenient
- First encountered 

--- NORMAL DISTRIBUTION ---
Only for parametric data (visual inspection, simmetry, peak in the middle)
You can plot it using seaborn and countplot or histogram
Mathematic inspection (tests) - Smirnov-test p-value to reject the null hypothesis 

RULE OF THUMB 
68, 95, 99% fall into 1 sigma(standard deviation), 2sigma, 3 sigma, respectively 

Z-SCORE TABLE (ROUGHLY ESTIMATION BECAUSE OF THE NORMAL DISTRIBUTUON NOT PERFECT ALSO)
- The numbers inside the table are the calculated area based on a normal distribution
- The indexes are used to check the z-score 
- Score is the sample number/data/whatever your are measuring Zscore=(Score-mean)/(standard deviation) 
- Then you read your Z on the table and the last digits 
- The number found is the remaining area (percentage) on the curve. it means how far is the data from the mean
- A z-score tells us the number of standard deviations a value is from the mean of a given distribution. negative z-scores indicate the value lies below the mean. positive z-scores indicate the value lies above the mean.

