DOE, PokeYoke, Lean Visual Management

--- DOE ---
Factorial Design (>1 Factors like 2 factors and with levels)
Number of experiments depends on the levels of each factors (multiply by themselves)
We have also the interaction effect. 
(levels of each factor)**factors
avaliar tbm se o melhor resultado é o mais viável tbm (custo, tempo, esforco)
Check doepy library in python and calculating metrics 

OFAT (one factor at a time)
change only 1 factor and leave the others the same 
doesnt consider the interaction effect


--- Poka yoke ---
Mistakes by the operator 
Then you make something mistake proof
Requires inspection, repair or rework (non-value added activity)

--- Lean visuals --- 
kanban boards, shadow boards, andon and floor markings (airport for example).
Floor Markings (make it easier, safe)
Andon - colorful light signals 
Shadow boards - Place like a board to place all tools and everyone can see if something is missing or
everything is ready for the next day
Kanban boards - sticky notes - to do , doing, done (place the board where there is high traffic)

-- FMEA (Failure Mode Effect Analysis) ---
~we do that in a group 
~there is a high level of subjectivity when scoring SOD. thats why we do it in GROUP to avoid biases
Failure mode: What bad could happen?
Effect: What is the effect? What would happen 
S: Severity score 1-10, 10 means major impact on user

Cause of the failure mode: What caused the problem? Could be more than 1
Occurence: 1-10 what is the possibility to happen? 
Detectability: Can we detect BEFORE it happens? 1-10, 10 means it is not easy to detect, so it is bad. 

RPN: Risk product number: Multiply S, O and D
The higher the RPN, the more urgent you have to look at it
ACTION: you take action
then rescore SOD and recalculate the RPN 

--- Theory of constaints --- 
Detect the bottleneck of a process (weakest link or slowest part of the process)
SMED is one of the tools to reduce the time of the bottlenecks inside a working station
When looking through a whole process, we cannot accelerate one step when it heaps up and accumulate before the next step 

--- 20/60/20 ---
-20 % will hate the changes
60% are not sure
+20 % will embrace anything you suggest

focus on the 60% and try to bring the -20% closer and hear them 

--- RACI Matrix --- 
R: Responsible who execute tasks
A: Accountable final decision, project owner
C: Consulted consulted before executing tasks
I: Informed informed about important actions 

A must be there at least for one person (and only one)

--- Quality Function deployment QFD --- 
House of quality 
Matrix that lists and correlates the VOC and controlled factors 
Each VOC has a weigth and it shows the importance factors (on the bottom)
Competition: How are the competition doing? right side bar from 1-5. 5 is good 

--- Hoshin Kanri matrix --- 

X-matrix 

This tool is very useful because it translates your strategic goals (your improvement program) into several concrete steps, it translates them into annual goals, concrete improvement priorities, metrics and finally also assigns responsibilities. It prevents loose ends

Improvement priorities 
Annual Goals 
KPIs - Key performance indicator 
Strategic goals 
- Primary or secondary relationship 
- Use symbols just like QFD House 
GIVE CONCRETE VALUES FOR THE GOALS

