Check if your solution remains a solution
Statistical Process Control charts 
Target value, upper control limit, lower control limit
Values can vary inside a range (limits). if not, is is a outlier out a of assigned control 
There could be trends inside the control range (morale of employees fe)
There could be a shift also (a onset of the line,abruptal change)

--- Origins of SPC ---
Dr. Heming during war and in Japan later 

--- 3 Sigma Control Chart --- 
For example we look first on a chart with the measurements of the diameter of a bearing a we see that the shape
of distribution looks a like a normal distribution, with a mean and some points out of the control (+3sigma)
Then we plot the process performance mean over time and we have the limits (upper and low) and this are -3 and +3 sigma. sigma is the standard deviation in this case 
We need to tackle the assignable variation (fatigue, wear, distraction)
Depending on the data (discrete like good/bad, number of defects per unit; or continuos like weight, temperature etc), we choose a chart for the control 

--- Selecting control chart --- 
Discrete: Count (defect, errors) or classified (defective)
:: Sample size constant or variable size?
Continuos
::Sample size? 1-2, 3-9 or >10. it can be sample of 150 parts for example 


--- DISCRETE DATA --- 
c(ount)-chart? Discrete and we are counting errors, with a sample size constant (like always 150 shoes with different deffects)

u (count)-chart? Discrete and we are counting defectives with varying sample size (accidents per deliveries per day for example)

np-chart? classified (dirty, broken, bad, good) with same sample size 

p-chart? we monitor the proportion. like the number of failing students per total students in semester 

--- CONTINUOUS DATA ---
I MR-chart? with sampling size small like 1 or 2 when sampling is expensive. 2 charts
X-R chart? Average between subgroup (x), Range between subgroup (R)
X-S chart? S is the SD within subgroup


--- SELECTING THE VARIABLE ---
Sample size (n)
Frequency
Measuring method 
Range
Grande average
etc
Just calculate using the formula


--- AUDIT AND VISUAL CONTROL ---

--- DASHBOARD ---
EDA of the data using excel but I am also plotting using plotly and pandas and matplotlib
Excel is easy, just watch the video and make the interactive plot

You want a dashboard that gives early warning signals if your problem is not under control. Make sure your dashboard contains the early warnings related to your problem. What are those early warnings? It depends. There is no “one size fits all” answer here. In general, it helps if you reason backwards. For example, an early warning of low revenue is low customer satisfaction, long delivery times, high % of flawed products that need repairs etc. So you would choose wisely if you include customer satisfaction, delivery time and % of flawed products in your dashboard





