Goal, timeline, borders, needed resources (time,money, machinnery, people), stakeholdes


--- PROBLEM STATEMENT ---
Metric, size, time, facts based, minimal jargon, NO SOLUTION INCLUDED!!!


"We have too much inventory and we need to have less by implementing JID" No time, what is the metric? 
It contains the solution. VOC vs CTQ. VOC is the voice of custommer and CTQ (critical to quality) is what it actually means

--- KANO MODEL ---
Diagram with satisfaction and performance (4 quartets)
Deligthers, performance and must be factors 
We can rise this information by making a Requirement Survey with custommers 
The largest numbers of responses will describe our factor
After evaluating the factor, compare with the performance and take action if necessary

--- DISCOUNT RATE, FUTURE VALUE, PRESENT VALUE ---
DR: Return over safe or no risk activities. talk with Finance Department 
FV: There is a formula involving DR and PV and time 
It is good to keep track of the return over years and check the best option 
We need to calculate the PV and sum all of them (for all years).This will take into account the discount rate
This is the calculate the present value of all cash flows 
Calculation was done in Calculating metrics


--- PROJECT PRIORITIZATION MATRIX --- 
We create a matrix with the list of the projects,
Select the criteria we are going to use and we give weight to them from 0 to 100
Then we give scores from 1 to 5 to the projects and multiply by the weight. 
We do that as a group!!!


--- GOAL ---
Inform others (stakeholders), obtain approval, measure sucess
What? How much? By when?

--- CRITICAL PATH METHOD --- 
Stanley Kubrick method Napoleon movie which was never shot
Schedule of activities (Start and End, Duration, Order, Buffer)
Table of activities: Activity, Predecessor, Duration (based on experience and flexible)
Create a diagram with the activities and arrows (left to right)
Put earliest start time // duration // earliest end time above the activities box 
Now on reverse order:

We have to define the CP than we know which blocks can be delayed more (branches)
latest start time // buffer difference between earliest and latest // latest end time below the activities box
(CRITICAL PATH IS THE SEQUENCE WHERE YOU HAVE NO BUFFER TIME) - cannot delay 

--- GANT CHART --- 
Different colors, weaks, activities
easy to comunicate
Use CPM for more detailed info 
Measure phases takes more time, together with improve 
SIPOC usually helps to validate the scope 
Questions : Owner of the process? Who give inputs? Who is the customer? What resources does the process use? 
...Which documentation is used? Which steps can be improved?
SIPOC (Supplier, Input, Process, Output, Customer)
SIPOC Analysis: Define project start and end step. Define intermediate
It is also a contract (scope) for the project

--- PROJECT CHARTER ---
1 page
Business case: Problem statement/opportunity, Estimated costs, Risks
Problem and Goal
Team members involved 
Scope: What is the boundaries of the project
Stakeholders 
Resources 
Schedule: Gantt Chart




